# PDF Audiobook

## Video Demo: [Video](https://youtu.be/LgIYdxxn3Js)

## **Description:**

My project is a web application that was created using Python (Flask), SQLite, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.

### **Purpose:**

The purpose of my project is to convert text from PDF files into audio that the user can listen to immediately or download to his/her own device in .mp3 format. I believe that "PDF Audiobook" could improve the lives of students who encounter difficulties reading text.

## **Structure:**

1. **Initial page**.

   This page serves only to welcome the user and redirect to "Log In" or "Sign Up".
   - **Log In** button redirects the user to */login* page.
   - **Sign Up** button redirects the user to */signup* page.

2. **Sign Up page.**

   This page contains a form that allows a new user to create an account. When all necessary fields are filled in and "Sign Up" button pressed, then the user's *name* and *password* are stored in my database.
   - **Username** field takes the username from the user and if it is blank or someone with such username already exists then the user will be warned by flash message.
   - **Password** field takes a password from the user. The password must be at least 8 characters long and must contain at least 1 letter and 1 number. If these conditions are not met or the field is blank then the user will be warned by flash message.
   - **Confirm password** field takes the user's password confirmation. If the password is not confirmed correctly then the user will be warned by flash message.
   - **Email (optional)** field is not necessary but if the user typed in his/her email address then he/she will receive a letter with information about successful registration in my application.
   - **Sign Up** button submits the form via POST request and if all fields of the form are filled in correctly then the user will be registered and informed about it by flash message.

3. **Log In page.**

   This page contains a form that allows an existing user to log in and start using an application.
   - **Username** field serves to compare the user's input with usernames in database and if the field is blank or such name does not exist then the user will be warned by flash message.
   - **Password** field serves to check the correctness of the user's password and if it is incorrect or the field is blank then the user will be warned by flash message.
   - **Log In** button submits the form via POST request and if the requirements are met then the user will be logged into an application.

4. **Index(Home) page.**
   - **Select field** allows the user to select one of the previously uploaded files.
   - **Text area** contains the text extracted from the PDF file after pressing the **Confirm** button.
   - **Copy text to clipboard** button simply copies the text from the text area to the clipboard using JavaScript function.
   - **Clear text area** button simply clears the text area using JavaScript function.
   - **Audio player** serves to play audio version of the text extracted from the PDF file and also to download audio file in .mp3 format. Audio is generated by Google Text-to-Speech.

5. **Upload new PDF file.**
   - **Upload new PDF file** is and input field of "file" type where the user can choose a file from his/her device and press **Upload** button to upload it to the server. If no file chosen or if the format of the file that the user tries to upload is not .pdf then the user will be warned by flash message.

6. **Remove files.**
   - **Select field** allows the user to choose one of the previously uploaded files and press **Remove** to delete the file from the server and the file's information from the database.

7. **Change Password.**

   This page contains a form that allows a new user to change a current password to another one.
   - **Old Password** field serves to check the current password of the user. If the user typed in wrong password or the field is blank then the user will be warned by flash message.
   - **New Password** field takes a new password from the user. The password must be at least 8 characters long and must contain at least 1 letter and 1 number. If these conditions are not met or the field is blank then the user will be warned by flash message.
   - **Confirm New Password** field takes the user's new password confirmation. If the password is not confirmed correctly then the user will be warned by flash message.
   - **Change Password** button submits the form via POST request and inserts new password to the database.
  
